Workmode: Update with proposed new process (#48)
w3ctag/tag.w3.org: workmode/design-reviews.md

* Any deadlines in the request.
* At which **stage** the proposal has come in:
    * horizontal review from a WG
    * early review from a CG
    * early review from a browser process
    * request from a WG that is not part of HR
* The **size** of the review:
    * A complex domain?
    * A small delta?
    * Major gaps in the proposal?
    * Contentious issues that need to be resolved?
* What should the **primary area** of focus be?
    * API design
    * Security
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Internationalisation
    * Web architecture

Then we **label** review requests with a level:

* Level 0: we should not review this
* Level 1: can be done asynchronously by one or two people for each area.
* Level 2: should be scheduled to a breakout for time-limited discussion.
* Level 3: needs a whole breakout; may need external input.
* Level 4: escalation: needs whole TAG input.

Levels may change as a review progresses and new information comes to light, particularly as different areas are reviewed in more depth. (Eg. a level 1 may be appropriate for the API design, but may be elevated to level 3 for privacy review).

> **Milestones** are used to denote the week of a breakout in which we will next discuss the issue, or the deadline for asynchronous work to be done by the assignees.

Reviewer: Should we mention something like "Milestones tend to err on the side of optimism; it is common for us not to be able to get to all issues assigned to a milestone on that week."? I've had folks be quite puzzled about this, like "it was scheduled this week but then I got no feedback!"

---
layout: page
title: Design reviews
lead: "How we operate when carrying out a design review"
---

## Overview

> We periodically triage new issues opened in our [design reviews respository](), make assignments and add labels. We work both synchronously in calls, and asynchronously, depending on the complexity of a reivew request; sometimes we invite the requestor or another expert from the wider community to discuss something with us on a call.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We periodically triage new issues opened in our [design reviews respository](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/), make assignments and add labels. We work both synchronously in calls, and asynchronously, depending on the complexity of a review request. Sometimes we invite the requestor or another expert from the wider community to discuss something with us on a call.
```

> During a review, we my use the issue thread to ask questions, make suggestions, and report our current thinking. We also update the issue labels, milestones, and assignees as the review progresses. Other stakeholders may also update the thread with additional information if they think it will help the review.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During a review, we my use the issue thread to ask questions, make suggestions, and report our current thinking. 
We also update the issue labels, milestones, and assignees as the review progresses. 
Other stakeholders may also update the thread with additional information if they think it will help the review.
```

(same)

When the review is complete, we will close the issue with a concluding comment, and add a label that describes the disposition of the review.

## Making a request

> We provide an issue template for new review requests, and all review requests **must** provide [an explainer](explainers).

Reviewer 2: Broken link?

```suggestion
We provide an issue template for new review requests, and all review requests **must** provide [an explainer](../explainers).
```

(Not sure if this works.)

Please make it clear in your issue description:

> * at which stage the feature is (eg. if this is an early review, or part of horizontal review for CR);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* at which stage the feature is (eg. if this is an early review, or part of horizontal review for work that intends to become a W3C Candidate Recommendation);
```

* if you are opening an issue to give the TAG visibility of some activity (an "FYI");
* if the review is of a minor change to an existing specification which you think can benefit from TAG review;
* if there are any particular topics, questions or areas you are seeking input on.

## Preparing to review

### Triage

First, we check all relevant information is included, that the explainer is in sufficient detail and the correct format, that all required fields in the issue template have been filled in. If not, we will ask the requestor to complete this before we proceed further.

We apply **labels** according to the following, to help us decide how to proceed with a review:

* Any deadlines in the request.
* At which **stage** the proposal has come in:
    * horizontal review from a WG
    * early review from a CG
    * early review from a browser process
    * request from a WG that is not part of HR
* The **size** of the review:
    * A complex domain?
    * A small delta?
    * Major gaps in the proposal?
    * Contentious issues that need to be resolved?

> * What should the **primary area** of focus be?

Reviewer: How would primary area be determined? E.g. when would API design be the primary area?

Author: Gut feeling?

    * API design
    * Security
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Internationalisation
    * Web architecture

Then we **label** review requests with a level:

* Level 0: we should not review this
* Level 1: can be done asynchronously by one or two people for each area.
* Level 2: should be scheduled to a breakout for time-limited discussion.
* Level 3: needs a whole breakout; may need external input.

> * Level 4: escalation: needs whole TAG input.

Reviewer: "Level" doesn't really have an existing meaning in this context and it's not clear to me whether what this is describing is is a quantitative measure that should be named with numbers, or if it would be better framed with names.  Are these priority levels? If so, they should be framed as such. If not, what are they?

Author: In my mind it was a shortcut so we didn't need to label them with the full definitions, and we can just define the meanings of the labels here. I don't mind what we call them.

Author: From @martinthomson 

> 0 = "no action" or no label, 1 = "work: async", 2 = "work: breakout", 3 = "work: plenary", 4 = "work: whole-tag"

Reviewer 3: We agreed to clarify - and change to Mode rather than Level - or similar.

Reviewer 3: @martinthomson wrote: 0 = "no action" or no label, 1 = "work: async", 2 = "work: breakout", 3 = "work: plenary", 4 = "work: whole-tag"

> Levels may change as a review progresses and new information comes to light, particularly as different areas are reviewed in more depth. (Eg. a level 1 may be appropriate for the API design, but may be elevated to level 3 for privacy review).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Levels may change as a review progresses and new information comes to light, particularly as different areas are reviewed in more depth. For instance, level 1 may be appropriate for the API design, but the issue may be elevated to level 3 if privacy review seems necessary.
```

**Milestones** are used to denote the week of a breakout in which we will next discuss the issue, or the deadline for asynchronous work to be done by the assignees.

### Prioritisation

When prioritising issues to work on, we:

* Prioritise horizontal review, and requests from WGs for REC-track documents.
* Pay attention to deadlines, especially if they are part of the REC process.

> * Prioritise proposals with a clear path to standardisation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Prioritise proposals with a clear path to standardisation, including multiple implementations.
```

### Review areas

It is usually best to review new features/specifications/proposals with expertise from several different areas.

We do this by passing a review between different TAG members, depending on the area they are best equipped to cover. We use labels to indicate the status of each part of the review (eg. `API review: pending` / `API review: complete`). A review is complete when all areas have been marked as complete (or not applicable).

Broadly, the areas we cover most commonly are:

* API Design
* Security
* Privacy
* Accessibility
* Internationalisation

> * Web architecture

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Web architecture
```

I would put this first.

> **API design** is essentially review in line with the [design principles]().

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**API design** is essentially review in line with the [design principles](https://w3ctag.github.io/design-principles/).
```

> **Security, Privacy, a11y and i18n** map to horizontal review groups. These should get picked up by such groups - our job is to reinforce any concerns, and flag anything resulting from the features' situation in the broader platform (eg. how it might interact with another feature that the HR group wasn't thinking/doesn't know about). For early reviews we may have to do more - but mainly prompting conversations with other HR groups, or flagging things for the requestor to look more closely at, rather than deep review.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Security, Privacy, a11y and i18n** map to horizontal review groups. 
These should get picked up by such groups - our job is to reinforce any concerns, and flag anything resulting from the features' situation in the broader platform (eg. how it might interact with another feature that the HR group wasn't thinking/doesn't know about). 
For early reviews we may have to do more - but mainly prompting conversations with other HR groups, or flagging things for the requestor to look more closely at, rather than deep review.
```

line breaks

> **Security, Privacy, a11y and i18n** map to horizontal review groups. These should get picked up by such groups - our job is to reinforce any concerns, and flag anything resulting from the features' situation in the broader platform (eg. how it might interact with another feature that the HR group wasn't thinking/doesn't know about). For early reviews we may have to do more - but mainly prompting conversations with other HR groups, or flagging things for the requestor to look more closely at, rather than deep review.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Security, Privacy, Accessibility, and Internationalisation** map to horizontal review groups. These should get picked up by such groups - our job is to reinforce any concerns and flag anything resulting from the features' situation in the broader platform (eg. how it might interact with another feature that the HR group wasn't thinking/doesn't know about). For early reviews we may have to do more - but mainly prompting conversations with other HR groups, or flagging things for the requestor to look more closely at, rather than deep review.
```

**Web architecture**: how does it fit with the rest of the web platform? Implications for other existing or emerging features/areas? Is it consistent, technically and conceptually? Is it likely to be widely and consistently implemented? Any knock-on effects or opportunities from doing so? 

### Assignments

> At least two TAG members are assigned for each _area_ of each review request. All assignees should know which part(s) of the review they are responsible for. Issues may be reassigned to different people as a review progresses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At least two TAG members are assigned for each _area_ of each review request. 
All assignees should know which part(s) of the review they are responsible for. 
Issues may be reassigned to different people as a review progresses.
```

line breaks

## Conducting a review

We communicate the progress of our reviews by commenting in the issue thread, and updating labels. 

Depending on the complexity of a review, work may be done synchronously (on calls, typically with three or more TAG members present) or asynchronously (by one or two TAG members).

The complexity of a review usually depends on things like:

* Long-running, well understood area?
* Part of a set of connected proposals?
* Is there multi-stakeholder support? 
* Is there multi-implementer support?
* A long history of discussion/debate?
* New work? Experimental?
* Clear path to standardisation, or uncertain future?

> * Any specific questions the requestor asks us.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Has the requester asked us any questions?
```

* Have we seen this, or something like it, before?

### Synchronously (on calls)

We have a schedule of "breakout" calls each week across several timezones; TAG members are expected to attend at least two of these. The agenda is prepared in advance by the chairs, based on milestones assigned to design review issues, and the expected attendees of the breakouts. We use these for:

> * Addressing issues, answering questions etc. than cannot be done by assignees asynchronously.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Addressing issues, answering questions, and activity that either cannot be done asynchronously or is more efficient in real-time.
```

This is starting to look like a list within a list now, so maybe instead:

```suggestion
```
And see below.

* Coworking on a review response; knowledge-sharing.
* High bandwidth discussion on complex topics.
* Discussion with external invitees.
* Reaching consensus on difficult issues prior to final review.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Any other actions that cannot be performed asynchronously or independently.

```

We also have a "plenary" call every two weeks, which all TAG members are expected to attend. We use these for:

* Reporting on progress from breakouts or asynchronous working.

> * Escalation of contentious issues that need to be considered by everyone.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Escalation of interesting or difficult issues that might need more discussion or awareness.
```

* **Satisfied** This is a straightforward positive response.
* **Satisfied with Concerns** Positive, but would like to see either technical (e.g. API surface) or ecosystem (e.g. other implementor buy-in) changes. If the rebuttal results in no change in the substance of the proposal (feature champion rejects any suggested changes), this will get bumped down to one of the following negative resolutions, usually Unsatisfied.
* **Ambivalent** Mixed feelings - either we failed to reach consensus on this or there is a level of uncertainty to the proposal where we feel the need to send a stronger negative message than Satisfied with Concerns.
* **Unsatisfied** Unsatisfied due to the technical artifact being reviewed not being of acceptable quality standards. This can result from either a fundamentally flawed technical proposal or a salvageable proposal where the rebuttal was disputed and remained unchanged at the end of the review.
* **Withdrawn** The feature champion decided to withdraw the proposal (e.g., determined that the design was overly complex to pursue and had unfixable flaws) during the review process.

> * **Overtaken** The proposal was usurped (e.g., by a competing proposal) during the review process.

Reviewer 2: Usurpation implies a degree of agency that might not be right.

```suggestion
* **Overtaken** External events mean that the work is no longer relevant (e.g., a competing proposal is now being pursued instead).
```

Nit: We need to more consistent about "e.g.," or "eg." throughout.  I'm accustomed to the former, but this document starts with the latter, mostly.

* **Validated** This is for early reviews, where we largely support the direction the work is going in.
* **Timed out** We have requested additional information and have not received it.
* **Too early** The proposal isn't ready for TAG review.
* **Out of scope** This isn't in the scope of the TAG.
* **Lack of consensus** The TAG does not have an internal consensus on this proposal.
* **No comment** Used when we don't have the required expertise.

> * **Proposed: Abstain** This is a neutral resolution, which can be used for the entire spectrum between "not enough time/expertise" to "we don't care" - basically, when we have neither positive nor negative feedback on the proposal.

Reviewer 2: Why are these only "proposed"?

Reviewer 3: Because they're not currently in use.

Reviewer 2: OK, but given that merging this pull request will bring them into our process, I don't think that we need that marking here (it will be confusing).

* **Proposed: Object** We strongly object to this proposal to a point that we would consider a formal objection at the point of a wider review. This applies to cases where we do not think the feature should be part of the Web Platform (and whether it ships as a proprietary feature or not, we do not have control but likely do not care).

> 

Reviewer 4: Are these two blank lines spurious?

---
layout: page
title: Design reviews
lead: "How we operate when carrying out a design review"
---

> ## Overview

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Introduction
```

(To match the edit below.)

> We periodically triage new issues opened in our [design reviews respository](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews), make assignments and add labels. We work both synchronously in calls, and asynchronously, depending on the complexity of a reivew request; sometimes we invite the requestor or another expert from the wider community to discuss something with us on a call.

Reviewer 2: I don't think that this introduction really introduces the piece.

Triage might be the first thing we do, but it is not the first thing that readers of this document will be looking for.

```suggestion
An important function of the TAG is in providing [design review](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews), for proposed changes to the web.

Authors of new proposals can [ask the TAG to review](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/new/choose) a proposal or to resolve a technical dispute.

This document describes how the TAG handles these requests.

## Overview

Once a request is made, we periodically triage new issues and make assignments.

Review is performed both synchronously in calls, and asynchronously, depending on the complexity of a review request.  Sometimes we invite the requestor or another expert from the wider community to discuss something with us on a call.

We track the status of review requests with issue labels.  Labels describe how we intend to conduct a review, who we believe is responsible for any outstanding actions, and any resolution to the review.
```

Then continue with the other points you make.

During a review, we my use the issue thread to ask questions, make suggestions, and report our current thinking. 
We also update the issue labels, milestones, and assignees as the review progresses. 
Other stakeholders may also update the thread with additional information if they think it will help the review.

When the review is complete, we will close the issue with a concluding comment, and add a label that describes the disposition of the review.

## Making a request

> We provide an issue template for new review requests, and all review requests **must** provide [an explainer](../explainers).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We provide an issue template for new review requests, and all review requests **must** provide [an explainer](/explainers/).
```

I don't know if this link works, but it seems to work for the other document.

* if there are any particular topics, questions or areas you are seeking input on.

## Preparing to review

### Triage

First, we check all relevant information is included, that the explainer is in sufficient detail and the correct format, that all required fields in the issue template have been filled in. If not, we will ask the requestor to complete this before we proceed further.

We apply **labels** according to the following, to help us decide how to proceed with a review:

* Any deadlines in the request.
* At which **stage** the proposal has come in:
    * horizontal review from a WG
    * early review from a CG
    * early review from a browser process
    * request from a WG that is not part of HR
* The **size** of the review:
    * A complex domain?
    * A small delta?
    * Major gaps in the proposal?
    * Contentious issues that need to be resolved?
* What should the **primary area** of focus be?
    * API design
    * Security
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Internationalisation
    * Web architecture

Then we **label** review requests with a _mode_:

> * `mode: none`: we should not review this

Reviewer 2: I still think that we should just summarily close issues that we can identify this way.  No need for a label for that.  That is, I suggest we just jump straight to `resolution: decline`.

> Then we **label** review requests with a _mode_:
> 
> * `mode: none`: we should not review this

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
During triage, we might decline a request for any reason (see below).
For reviews that we accept, we will **label** review requests with a _mode_:

```

* **Unsatisfied** Unsatisfied due to the technical artifact being reviewed not being of acceptable quality standards. This can result from either a fundamentally flawed technical proposal or a salvageable proposal where the rebuttal was disputed and remained unchanged at the end of the review.
* **Withdrawn** The review requester decided to withdraw the proposal during the review process.
* **Overtaken** External events mean that the work is no longer relevant (e.g., a competing proposal is now being pursued instead).
* **Validated** This is for early reviews, where we largely support the direction the work is going in.
* **Timed out** We have requested additional information and have not received it.
* **Lack of consensus** The TAG does not have an internal consensus on this proposal.
* **Decline** The TAG has declined to review this work.  This might be for any number of reasons, which will be explained in comments.  Possible examples are a lack of expertise, lack of time, a judgment that a review would not help improve the work, it's too early for a TAG review, or the work is out of scope.

> * **Object** The TAG has resolved that this work would be detrimental or runs counter to [design](), [privacy](), [ethical](), or other principles that have been established by the TAG or W3C. This is a strongly negative position and indicates that the TAG, as a body, will [oppose](process#fo) the progression of work toward Recommendation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Object** The TAG has resolved that this work would be detrimental or runs counter to [design](https://w3ctag.github.io/design-principles/), [privacy](https://w3ctag.github.io/privacy-principles/), [ethical](https://w3ctag.github.io/ethical-web-principles/), or other principles that have been established by the TAG or W3C. This is a strongly negative position and indicates that the TAG, as a body, will [oppose](https://www.w3.org/2023/Process-20231103/#registering-objections) the progression of work toward Recommendation.
```

* if you are opening an issue to give the TAG visibility of some activity (an "FYI");
* if the review is of a minor change to an existing specification which you think can benefit from TAG review;
* if there are any particular topics, questions or areas you are seeking input on.

## Preparing to review

### Triage

First, we check all relevant information is included, that the explainer is in sufficient detail and the correct format, that all required fields in the issue template have been filled in. If not, we will ask the requestor to complete this before we proceed further.

We apply **labels** according to the following, to help us decide how to proceed with a review:

* Any deadlines in the request.
* At which **stage** the proposal has come in:
    * horizontal review from a WG
    * early review from a CG
    * early review from a browser process
    * request from a WG that is not part of HR
* The **size** of the review:
    * A complex domain?
    * A small delta?
    * Major gaps in the proposal?
    * Contentious issues that need to be resolved?

> * What should the **primary area** of focus be?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* What should the **primary area** of focus be (this will depend on the subject of the review and other context)?
```

Reviewer 2: I don't think that we need that clarification.  As Amy says, let us rely on the good judgment of the people involved.  Also, "this will depend on context" doesn't really add any information.

    * API design
    * Security
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Internationalisation
    * Web architecture

Then we **label** review requests with a level:

> * Level 0: we should not review this

Author: Do we need level 0?

Reviewer 2: No.  We can just close those issues.

```suggestion
```

> * Level 1: can be done asynchronously by one or two people for each area.

Reviewer: Is this meant to be Fast Track?

> * Level 1: can be done asynchronously by one or two people for each area.

Author: ```suggestion
* Level 1: can be done asynchronously (fast track) by one or two people for each area.
```

* Level 2: should be scheduled to a breakout for time-limited discussion.
* Level 3: needs a whole breakout; may need external input.

> * Level 4: escalation: needs whole TAG input.

Reviewer 2: Relaying comment from our chat:

0 = "no action" or no label, 1 = "work: async", 2 = "work: breakout", 3 = "work: plenary", 4 = "work: whole-tag"

Also, s/work/accept/ perhaps.

> * `no-action`: we should not review this
> * `mode-async`: can be done asynchronously by one or two people for each area. (Also known as 'fast-track'.)
> * `mode-breakout`: should be scheduled to a breakout for time-limited discussion.
> * `mode-extra`: needs a dedicated session/breakout; may need external input.
> * `mode-whole-tag`: escalation: needs whole TAG input.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* `mode: none`: we should not review this
* `mode: async`: can be done asynchronously by one or two people for each area. (Also known as 'fast-track'.)
* `mode: breakout`: should be scheduled to a breakout for time-limited discussion.
* `mode: extra`: needs a dedicated session/breakout; may need external input.
* `mode: plenary`: escalation: needs whole TAG input.
```

> The mode may change as a review progresses and new information comes to light, particularly as different areas are reviewed in more depth. For instance, `work-async` may be appropriate for the API design, but the issue may be changed to `work-extra` for privacy review if that seems necessary.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The mode may change as a review progresses and new information comes to light, particularly as different areas are reviewed in more depth. For instance, `mode-async` may be appropriate for the API design, but the issue may be changed to `mode-extra` for privacy review if that seems necessary.
```

**Milestones** are used to denote the week of a breakout in which we will next discuss the issue, or the deadline for asynchronous work to be done by the assignees.

### Prioritisation

When prioritising issues to work on, we:

* Prioritise horizontal review, and requests from WGs for REC-track documents.
* Pay attention to deadlines, especially if they are part of the REC process.

> * Prioritise proposals with a clear path to standardisation, including multiple implementations.

Reviewer: Should we also say something along the lines of we also prioritize based on the impact we predict the review could have? To cover the cases where the tech has shipped and it wouldn't even be web compatible to change it at this point or cases where it's clear the commenter is just ticking a box.

Reviewer 3: Do you have a suggestion of how that should look?

Reviewer 2: I like the suggestion, perhaps:

```suggestion
* Prioritise proposals with a clear path to standardisation, including multiple implementations.
* Prioritise based on an assessment of impact, preferring proposals where review will add more value.
```

### Review areas

It is usually best to review new features/specifications/proposals with expertise from several different areas.

We do this by passing a review between different TAG members, depending on the area they are best equipped to cover. We use labels to indicate the status of each part of the review (eg. `API review: pending` / `API review: complete`). A review is complete when all areas have been marked as complete (or not applicable).

Broadly, the areas we cover most commonly are:

> * API Design
> * Security
> * Privacy
> * Accessibility
> * Internationalisation
> * Web architecture

Author: ```suggestion
* Web architecture
* API Design
* Security
* Privacy
* Accessibility
* Internationalisation
```

* Coworking on a review response; knowledge-sharing.
* High bandwidth discussion on complex topics.
* Discussion with external invitees.
* Reaching consensus on difficult issues prior to final review.
* Any other actions that cannot be performed asynchronously or independently.

We also have a "plenary" call every two weeks, which all TAG members are expected to attend. We use these for:

* Reporting on progress from breakouts or asynchronous working.
* Escalation of interesting or difficult issues that might need more discussion or awareness.
* Triaging new issues.
* Future agenda planning.

### Asynchronously

If any area of a review can be completed asynchronously, any individual TAG member with the appropriate domain expertise can do so. Most reviews will be conducted by at least two people; often one who is leading and another who is checking over comments before they are posted. This can happen in Slack, between breakouts.

We keep each other updated about any reviews that were completed asynchronously during our plenary calls.

> ## Resolutions

Author: There are too many, sometimes overlapping, 'neutral' type resolutions that we should merge

When we complete a review, we use labels to indicate the disposition of the review. The definitions of these are as follows.

* **Satisfied** This is a straightforward positive response.
* **Satisfied with Concerns** Positive, but would like to see either technical (e.g. API surface) or ecosystem (e.g. other implementor buy-in) changes. If the rebuttal results in no change in the substance of the proposal (feature champion rejects any suggested changes), this will get bumped down to one of the following negative resolutions, usually Unsatisfied.

> * **Ambivalent** Mixed feelings - either we failed to reach consensus on this or there is a level of uncertainty to the proposal where we feel the need to send a stronger negative message than Satisfied with Concerns.

Author: ```suggestion
```

I don't think we need ambivalent

Reviewer 3: I'm ok with that. @plinss wdyt?

Reviewer 5: I think `Lack of consensus` is a better label for the first usage (which we should be explicit about). I do see some value in a `Meh` response, which would be distinct from `Lack of consensus`, `No comment`, and `Abstain`, and means "we don't have a strong negative opinion, but also don't really see any value to having this". One could argue that situation should be a more explicit "not worth doing, so don't".

Author: I've reviewed the labels after merging various suggestions, and I don't think there's anything in the current definition of ambivalent that isn't covered by another label. I think we could probably use satisfied with concerns for "no strong negative opinion / not worth doing so don't" - and if the concerns are stronger than that - that it does more harm than good to proceed (even if that harm is just wasting a bunch of peoples time) - then we should use unsatisfied.

* **Unsatisfied** Unsatisfied due to the technical artifact being reviewed not being of acceptable quality standards. This can result from either a fundamentally flawed technical proposal or a salvageable proposal where the rebuttal was disputed and remained unchanged at the end of the review.
* **Withdrawn** The feature champion decided to withdraw the proposal (e.g., determined that the design was overly complex to pursue and had unfixable flaws) during the review process.
* **Overtaken** External events mean that the work is no longer relevant (e.g., a competing proposal is now being pursued instead).
* **Validated** This is for early reviews, where we largely support the direction the work is going in.
* **Timed out** We have requested additional information and have not received it.
* **Too early** The proposal isn't ready for TAG review.
* **Out of scope** This isn't in the scope of the TAG.
* **Lack of consensus** The TAG does not have an internal consensus on this proposal.
* **No comment** Used when we don't have the required expertise.

> * **Proposed: Abstain** This is a neutral resolution, which can be used for the entire spectrum between "not enough time/expertise" to "we don't care" - basically, when we have neither positive nor negative feedback on the proposal.

Author: ```suggestion
```

Do we need abstain? I think we need a much narrower definition if so

Reviewer 3: The definition seems OK to me - otherwise we will end up with a bunch of neutral resolution types which I think we want to get away from...

Reviewer 2: If we have something like this, which I would prefer not to, I would do this:

```suggestion
* **Decline** The TAG has declined to review this work.  This might be for any number of reasons, which will be explained in comments.  Possible examples are a lack of expertise, lack of time, a judgment that a review would not help improve the work, or the work is off-topic.
```

> * **Proposed: Object** We strongly object to this proposal to a point that we would consider a formal objection at the point of a wider review. This applies to cases where we do not think the feature should be part of the Web Platform (and whether it ships as a proprietary feature or not, we do not have control but likely do not care).

Reviewer 2: I do like that we're signaling that we reserve the right to oppose something, but we should be clearer in messaging - and in how we intend to make this sort of decision.

```suggestion
* **Object** The TAG has resolved that this work would be detrimental or runs counter to [design](), [privacy](), [ethical](), or other principles that have been established by the TAG or W3C. This is a strongly negative position and indicates that the TAG, as a body, will [oppose](process#fo) the progression of work toward Recommendation.
```

I don't think that we need to talk about proprietary deployments of bad ideas.  I see the recent trend toward shipping outside of any standards process as a massive problem, but this is not the place to make statements about that.

We apply **labels** according to the following, to help us decide how to proceed with a review:

* Any deadlines in the request.
* At which **stage** the proposal has come in:
    * horizontal review from a WG
    * early review from a CG
    * early review from a browser process
    * request from a WG that is not part of HR
* The **size** of the review:
    * A complex domain?
    * A small delta?
    * Major gaps in the proposal?
    * Contentious issues that need to be resolved?
* What should the **primary area** of focus be?
    * API design
    * Security
    * Privacy
    * Accessibility
    * Internationalisation
    * Web architecture

Then we **label** review requests with a _mode_:

* `mode: none`: we should not review this
* `mode: async`: can be done asynchronously by one or two people for each area. (Also known as 'fast-track'.)
* `mode: breakout`: should be scheduled to a breakout for time-limited discussion.
* `mode: extra`: needs a dedicated session/breakout; may need external input.
* `mode: plenary`: escalation: needs whole TAG input.

> The mode may change as a review progresses and new information comes to light, particularly as different areas are reviewed in more depth. For instance, `mode-async` may be appropriate for the API design, but the issue may be changed to `mode-extra` for privacy review if that seems necessary.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The mode may change as a review progresses and new information comes to light, particularly as different areas are reviewed in more depth. For instance, `mode: async` may be appropriate for the API design, but the issue may be changed to `mode: extra` for privacy review if that seems necessary.
```

We keep each other updated about any reviews that were completed asynchronously during our plenary calls.

## Resolutions

When we complete a review, we use labels to indicate the disposition of the review. The definitions of these are as follows.

* **Satisfied** This is a straightforward positive response.
* **Satisfied with Concerns** Positive, but would like to see either technical (e.g. API surface) or ecosystem (e.g. other implementor buy-in) changes. If the rebuttal results in no change in the substance of the proposal (feature champion rejects any suggested changes), this will get bumped down to one of the following negative resolutions, usually Unsatisfied.
* **Ambivalent** Mixed feelings - either we failed to reach consensus on this or there is a level of uncertainty to the proposal where we feel the need to send a stronger negative message than Satisfied with Concerns.
* **Unsatisfied** Unsatisfied due to the technical artifact being reviewed not being of acceptable quality standards. This can result from either a fundamentally flawed technical proposal or a salvageable proposal where the rebuttal was disputed and remained unchanged at the end of the review.

> * **Withdrawn** The feature champion decided to withdraw the proposal (e.g., determined that the design was overly complex to pursue and had unfixable flaws) during the review process.

Author: ```suggestion
* **Withdrawn** The review requester decided to withdraw the proposal during the review process.
```

* **Overtaken** External events mean that the work is no longer relevant (e.g., a competing proposal is now being pursued instead).
* **Validated** This is for early reviews, where we largely support the direction the work is going in.
* **Timed out** We have requested additional information and have not received it.

> * **Too early** The proposal isn't ready for TAG review.
> * **Out of scope** This isn't in the scope of the TAG.
> * **Lack of consensus** The TAG does not have an internal consensus on this proposal.
> * **No comment** Used when we don't have the required expertise.
> * **Decline** The TAG has declined to review this work.  This might be for any number of reasons, which will be explained in comments.  Possible examples are a lack of expertise, lack of time, a judgment that a review would not help improve the work, or the work is off-topic.

Author: ```suggestion
* **Lack of consensus** The TAG does not have an internal consensus on this proposal.
* **Decline** The TAG has declined to review this work.  This might be for any number of reasons, which will be explained in comments.  Possible examples are a lack of expertise, lack of time, a judgment that a review would not help improve the work, it's too early for a TAG review, or the work is out of scope.
```

Removing some on the basis of updated definition of "decline"
